WELCOME from APSCOM
Dear APSCOM 6 Delegates,

I would like to welcome you to the 6th Conference of the Asia-Pacific Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music (APSCOM). The inaugural meeting of APSCOM was held at Kyushu Institute of Design in Fukuoka in 2001 and it is very meaningful to have the sixth conference again in Japan. I wish to express my sincere thanks to Professor Keiko Arakawa (APSCOM 6 Conference Chair) and the members of Japanese Society for Music Perception and Cognition (JSMPC). I am also very grateful to all the members in the organizing committee and program committee for their works and efforts. The conference provides precious time for all of us to come together and discuss the recent research findings in the cognitive sciences of music. I wish you a stimulating meeting and a pleasant stay in Kyoto.

 
Kyung Myun Lee
(President of Asia-Pacific Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music)

Hello.
Welcome to the HP of APSCOM 6.

Thank you for seeing our site. I am Keiko Arakawa, the chair of the sixth Conference of the Asia-Pacific Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music (APSCOM 6). I am pleased to announce that APSCOM 6 will take place at Kyoto Women's University on August 25-27, 2017. (We plan to hold the opening ceremony in the Kyoto National Museum.) The conference will be hosted by the Japanese Society for Music Perception and Cognition (JSMPC).

APSCOM consists of four societies related to cognitive sciences on music in the Asia-Pacific region, AMPS (Australia), CSMP (China), JSMPC (Japan), and KSMPC (South Korea). APSCOM was inaugurated in 1989 at the time of the 1st International Conference on Music Perception and Cognition (ICMPC 1).

Cognitive sciences on music is a field of study which aims to clarify such aspects as perception/cognition, thinking, feeling, the mechanism and process of development which serve to mediate music. Depending on the object of research, a multi-disciplinary approach can be adopted incorporating such fields as psychology, brain science, acoustics, information engineering, medicine, physiology and musicology.

The conference is therefore open to everyone from all fields of study and from around the world. In APSCOM 6, there will be key note lectures, research presentations, and concerts such as jazz, gamelan, gagaku, and didgeridoo.

The theme of APSCOM 6 will be "Music as a universal human faculty: Exploring its biological, psychological, and cultural dimensions¡± Since ancient times, music has been with human beings. Through studies of the musical faculties of human beings, we aim to explore the great potential of human beings. We are therefore awaiting presentations and lively discussions on this theme.

Kyoto, which was the venue for the first ICMPC, is definitely a significant place to host APSCOM 6.

Kyoto Women's University, located near the famous Honganji temple, is a Buddhist university with a history of 105 years. The university is in the center of Kyoto city and has easy access to the Kyoto National Museum which will hold some of the APSCOM 6 events. Nearby there are also a lot of traditional sightseeing areas (e.g., Sanjusangen-do temple, Gion district), where attendees can enjoy the atmosphere of ancient Japan.

A city bus is available to get to Kyoto Women¡¯s University from the JR Kyoto Station where the Shinkansen/Bullet train arrives. For APSCOM 6 attendees, we have already booked approximately 50 rooms in accommodations.

I and all of the JSMPC members look forward to seeing you next summer.

Best regards,